
WHAT IS RECURSION?
-------------------
Recursion is when a function calls itself to solve a smaller version of the
same problem, until it reaches a case simple enough to answer directly.

Every recursive function has two parts:

1. Base Case — the stopping condition. Without it, the function calls itself
   forever and crashes with a stack overflow.
2. Recursive Case — where the function calls itself with a smaller/simpler
   input, moving it closer to the base case.

Example (Factorial):

    int factorial(int n) 
    {
        if (n == 0) return 1;        // base case
        return n * factorial(n - 1); // recursive case
    }

Mentally, recursion works like a stack of plates. Each call is placed on top
of the call stack, waits for the one above it (or below it, functionally) to
finish, and only then computes its own result. This is why recursion is
closely tied to the concept of "trusting" the function to correctly solve a
smaller version of the problem (sometimes called the "leap of faith").

TAIL vs NON-TAIL RECURSION
----------------------------
- Non-tail recursion: work happens AFTER the recursive call returns
  (e.g. `n * factorial(n-1)` above). The stack has to hold onto each call
  until it gets an answer back.
- Tail recursion: the recursive call is the LAST operation, with nothing left
  to do afterward. Some languages/compilers optimize this into a loop
  (tail-call optimization), avoiding extra stack usage. C++ doesn't
  guarantee this optimization, so don't rely on it blindly.

WHEN TO USE RECURSION
-----------------------
- The problem is naturally defined in terms of smaller versions of itself
  (factorial, Fibonacci, tree/graph traversal, divide and conquer).
- The data structure is inherently recursive (trees, linked lists, nested
  JSON, file system directories).
- You need to explore all possibilities / backtrack (permutations,
  combinations, maze paths, N-Queens, Sudoku solvers).
- Divide-and-conquer algorithms (Merge Sort, Quick Sort, Binary Search) —
  splitting the problem in half repeatedly is cleaner recursively.
- The recursive solution is dramatically simpler/more readable than the
  iterative one, and performance isn't the top priority.

WHEN NOT TO USE RECURSION
----------------------------
- Simple linear iteration is enough (looping through an array/summing
  numbers) — a plain loop is faster and uses less memory.
- Input size is large and recursion depth could exceed the call stack limit
  (stack overflow risk). Iteration or an explicit stack is safer.
- Performance-critical code where function-call overhead matters — each
  recursive call has overhead (pushing stack frames) that loops don't have.
- The same subproblems get computed repeatedly without memoization (naive
  Fibonacci is a classic example — exponential time instead of linear).
- The language/environment doesn't optimize tail calls and depth could be
  very large.

QUICK TIPS
------------
1. Always define the base case FIRST and make sure it's actually reachable.
2. Make sure every recursive call moves strictly closer to the base case
   (shrinking input, smaller range, etc.) — otherwise infinite recursion.
3. Trust the recursion: assume the recursive call already correctly solves
   the smaller subproblem; don't try to mentally unroll every level.
4. Watch for overlapping subproblems — if the same call happens multiple
   times, consider memoization (top-down DP) or switch to an iterative/DP
   approach.
5. Recursion trades memory (call stack) for cleaner code — know that
   trade-off before using it in performance-sensitive or large-input code.
6. Draw the recursion tree (or trace 2-3 small examples by hand) when stuck
   — it makes base cases and repeated work obvious.
7. Any recursive solution can be converted to an iterative one using an
   explicit stack — useful if you hit recursion depth limits.

